Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now so far we've created a very simple list of months.
But as you start to write bigger and more complex programs your list will need to be more dynamic more
flexible which means that you will want to create lists and then add remove and elements as your program
is running that's create a new list one that stores the birthday months of friends and family.
So here we go as always.
Let's start off our name birthday months and that equals and let's just add in a few days a few months
of birthdays of friends and family.
So April as always opening closing single quotes comment to separate out the elements May and November.
Okay perfect.
Let's just print out our list just to make sure everything's working
and there we go.
Bottom left hand corner there is a list formatted that.
Now let's imagine that we've made a typo when spelling April so instead of spending April with an A.
We spelt it with an S Sproule.
OK.
And again we'll print this out.
OK and here we can see in the bottom left hand corner our typo.
In April instead of a we've got an S.
How do we change the value of this first element to correct a typo.
Well we could just remove this here altogether.
But let's imagine we're in a program running.
What we need to do is we need to modify the first element of this list and to do that we use the change
method you can use this method to change any element of a list and not just the Force One.
So we're going to use it here and the first one but you can use it for other elements in the list by
simply replacing the index number.
So let's have a look at the months on we want to change position 0 because that's April equals.
And now let's put in our correct spelling of April and because we haven't put a new print line we still
get her.
We still get our misspelled April let's put in a new print line and let's run it again.
And there we go.
So you can see our first list has our April with a spelling mistake on our second is corrected.
Not too bad.
Now let's add an element to our list.
So we've just made a new friend and you want to add their money to your birthday list.
How we do that.
Well we use what's called the append method.
So again we access our list birthday months we go does a p p e n d and then we'll in the brackets open
closing single quotes and we put in the month that we want to add.
So in this case let's say June and then we once again we print out our month's
rent a month and we run that and now we can see in the bottom left hand corner our list now has one
additional month.
June.
So what happens if you have no friends.
You just arrive in a new town and you've no Birdie's to add to your list.
Well you can create an empty list just like this so Birthday months equals a space that is to make it
easier to read.
Equals opening closing square brackets.
Now we have an empty list so let's print that as
perfect as you can see now our line of output here is moving through all our work.
And the last piece here the last line here is an empty list called Birthday months.
But now you've made a friend and you want to add their birthday month to your list.
How do you do it.
Well the append method works just as well on an empty list as it does with a list that already has elements
in it.
So let's take our birthday list again.
Birthday months.
Pand again opening closing brackets opening closing single quotes a U G U S T.
So your new friend was born in August.
Let's print this out again.
Perfect August has now been added to our list of birthday months so most of your programs are going
to start off in an empty list because after all you don't know what date or your users will want to
store the append method as an element to the end of a list.
But what if you want to add a new element to a specific position in your list.
Well let's take a look so at the moment we've got one month August in our list.
But now we've made yet another friend.
We're on a roll and their birthday is in May.
How do you add this month to your list before August.
Because August is already in there.
What you can do so by using the insert method you can use the insert method by set by specifying the
index of the new element and its value.
So let's again take our birthday months so Birthday months.
Insert as we said before when using a method in python you have dot and then the method name followed
by brackets.
So here we have done insert and we want to put this into position 0 which is the first position in their
list.
Comma and then opening closing single codes like before and closing brackets.
Now let's print out our birthday month list
and there we go.
Our last line may August perfect so we're doing well.
We're making friends and we're adding them to our list so we've discussed changing adding elements to
a list.
Now what about removing them.
So we've just found out what a friend.
OK so we're not doing too well we've just found that one of our two friends no longer want to remember
it apparently.
How do you remove it from your list.
Well we use the lead statement and let's have a look at that in operation using the delete statement
you can remove an item from any position in the list so long as you know its index.
So let's delete the birthday month let's delete position 1.
So we want to take out August
let's print out our birthday once again
and there we go.
Now a list of birthday months only contains one month and that may.
OK so now we move forward into a list.
We've seen how to change add and remove elements in the next letter that will continue on with our learning
of lists.
I will dive much deeper in with some new methods and new functions.
Thank you.
I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.